Hi guys and welcome back.
In this video we're going to learn about dictionaries.
When you look in a dictionary for a word definition,
you're performing a key search.
What that means is you know what you want to search for,
such as the word algorithm say,
and when you go into the dictionary and you find
the word algorithm, you get back some values
or the definitions of algorithm.
That is more or less what a dictionary is in Python.
A dictionary allows you to store keys and values
and it's useful for when you know the key
and you wanna get the value back.
Let's have a look.
Imagine you want a dictionary of friend ages,
what you would do is you would use curly braces
as you did with sets and then
you would type Rolf, colon, 24.
Here you've got your first dictionary.
Of course a dictionary of a single element
is hardly useful, you might as well just have it
on its own piece of paper,
so you can have multiple elements here
like that.
So here we have a dictionary of three elements
Rolf, Adam and Anne.
If you wanted to get Rolf's age,
you need to know what you are looking for
and that is the string Rolf,
that's the key and then you would get back 24
which is the value.
Very similar to how a real dictionary works
where you know what you're looking for,
say algorithm and you get back the definitions of the word.
If you wanted to find Rolf's age,
you can do print and then friend ages
which is the dictionary and then inside square brackets
you put what you're looking for, so Rolf.
Python will know that Rolf is a key in the dictionary
and it will give you back 24,
so this thing here will become the value 24.
Let's run this and show you.
You can see the 24 comes out because that is
the value associated with the key Rolf
in our dictionary.
You can always add keys to a dictionary
by doing friend ages and then something like Bob, equal 20.
Now important here is that what you're doing
is you are accessing a key of the dictionary
and you are setting a value in it.
I see some people trying to do something
like this, this is invalid Python,
you cannot do this because you are not accessing
the key in the dictionary, you are trying
to access the key and the value in one place
which you can't do.
Also forget about doing this,
friend ages Bob colon 20, this won't work either
because the colon is only used here
inside a dictionary, it's not used for assignment
of new values.
So this is how you assign a value
to a key in the dictionary, even if the key
doesn't exist yet.
Of course that means that you can change
and existing key in the dictionary if you want.
Say Rolf's birthday passes, you can set friend ages
of Rolf to 25.
Let's print friend ages and you'll see that
Rolf is 25 and Bob is 20.
There you have Bob at the end and Rolf as well.
A difference between dictionaries and sets
is that dictionaries do keep the order
in which you added keys to them
as of Python 3.7.
But like in sets, you cannot have duplicate keys
in a dictionary.
Indeed, if you already have Rolf in a dictionary
and you try to add Rolf again,
all that's gonna happen is you're gonna change Rolf,
you're not gonna add it again.
So you cannot have duplicate keys
but the order is kept, as of Python 3.7.
Before that, the order was not guaranteed.
Imagine you have a programme that stores information
about your friends.
If you have multiple friends and you wanna store
multiple pieces of information about them,
the best thing to do is to use a list
or a tuple of dictionaries.
So we will do friends equal
and then a tuple and inside it we will put
the name of our friend
and the age of our friend.
So what you've got here is a tuple
with three elements inside it
and it's very normal to define longer lists
and tuples like this with the starting bracket
and ending bracket in their own line
and then indented with four spaces, the values.
Putting four spaces, or indeed any number
of spaces in front of a line is called indentation
by the way.
So what we've got here is a very typical use case
of dictionaries which is to store information in a way
that will be easily retrievable and in a way
that is similar to other dictionaries that are related.
Here's what I mean by that.
If you wanted a friend's name,
you know that you can access one of these elements
and then the key name and that's gonna give you
the name of the person.
If you did this,
which is what we had earlier,
then you cannot access the name of each friend,
you will need to know the name of each friend before
you can access the value.
So by doing something like this,
what that allows us to do is say print friends zero
name, for example.
What we're doing here is we're accessing
the first element of the tuple
which is this dictionary and then the name property
of the dictionary which is Rolf Smith.
Notice that this is getting a little bit longer
so something you can do is you can do something
like friend is friends zero
and then you can do print friend name.
This is exactly the same thing but now
you are splitting a variable out first
so that it's a bit more readable.
Because you can do this,
and I'm actually going to revert back to it
so it's a little bit easier to copy and paste,
you can simply increase the number there
zero one two, and you're always accessing
the name property of the dictionary.
And it's always gonna give you the friend's name.
And this can be particularly useful when you have
a lot of friends or a lot of data in your lists
and your tuples and you want the data
to be homogeneous so that you can always
access the same key for each piece of data.
You'll see more about why this is useful
in the later sections of the course.
I also wanted to tell you about another function
which is called dict which is used to turn
data into a dictionary.
Here we've got a list of tuples
where there are three elements in our list,
these tuples, Rolf comma 24,
Adam comma 30 and Anne comma 27.
You can very easily turn this into a dictionary
by passing it to the dict function here.
So we're doing dict and then inside brackets
put in friends, what you end up with
is something like what we had at the start
of the video.
Rolf 24, Adam 30, Anne 27.
So this can be useful because there are many
different parts of Python that will give
you data in this format instead of a dictionary
and turning them into a dictionary like this
can be really handy.
Over the next few videos and the next few sections,
we're going to be using this every now and then
so I just wanted to introduce it to you now
so you know how it works,
but don't worry when we come to it,
we will explain it further as well.
Thanks for joining me in this video
I hope you've learned something
and I'll see you in the next one.